# FEniCSUI documentation

FEniCSUI is a library to build powerful user interfaces for FEniCS solvers. It provides a web interface consist of a 3D interactive CAD viewer to view and examine the geometry and a working tree to  provide the parameters necessary for running the solver.

## Quick start:

FEniCSUI is based on python, docker, and gmsh, all of which are available for Windows/Mac/ Windows systems, so theoretically, it is compatible with all operating systems given that the required version of the prerequisite libraries are installed. However, the following instructions are for Ubuntu 18.

Windows users can use [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) (WSL) to run the code in the windows environment. 

##### 1. Docker:

The solver uses the docker image of FEniCS project to run the finite element code. This requires the docker to be installed and running in your system. 

If you are using WSL services, [here](https://nickjanetakis.com/blog/setting-up-docker-for-windows-and-wsl-to-work-flawlessly) is a comprehensive guide on how to use windows docker inside WSL 1.

If you have already had docker installed and running, skip to the **step 2**!

To install docker on Ubuntu run the following commands in the terminal:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt install docker.io
```

and start the docker using system control:

```bash
sudo systemctl start docker
sudo systemctl enable docker
```

**OR** services:

```bash
sudo service docker start
```



You can make sure that the docker is up and running by:

```bash
docker info
# this shoud give you information about docker deamon

docker-compose --version
# you should get back your docker compose version
```

##### 2. gmsh:

We use gmsh to mesh the uploaded geometry (Step format supported). We use [pygmsh](https://pypi.org/project/pygmsh/) to call gmsh commands from web server backend, however, it requires the C++ libraries of gmsh to be installed on the system. The current mesh converters are based on gmsh version 3.0.6, which can be installed by:

```bash
sudo apt-get install -y gmsh=3.0.6+dfsg1-1
```

##### 3. python environment and dependencies

Clone the repository to a local directory:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/nasserarbabi/FEniCSUI.git
```

** If you do not have git on your system, install it via `sudo apt install git`

Go to the main directory:

```bash
cd FEniCSUI
```

Create a new virtual environment and activate it:

```bash
virtualenv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

** If you do not have virtualenv, you can install it by `pip install virtualenv`

Then, install dependencies using:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Since this is the first time that the app is installed, the database for the Django backend should be initialized. To do this, please go to the `FEniCSUI/FEniCSUI` directory, and run the following commands on terminal:

```bash
cd FEniCSUI
python manage.py makemigrations
pyhton manage.py migrate
```

Once the database is initialized, you can run the application server by:

```bash
python manage.py runserver
```

Go to `localhost:8000` in your web browser. 


